I don't think it diminishes
a fine dining restaurant to stand
alongside a taco truck.
>> Oh my god, I just got a little I just
welled up a little bit.
>> I'm Wesley Morris and this is
Cannonball. Today dinner is served.
Anytime I am on my way somewhere in
southern Bedstey, that's in Brooklyn, I
will make sure I am just hungry enough
to pass by ANA baked doubles and roti
from the street. This place, it's
nothing special. It's just like a red
awning, windows, and a door. But the
minute I get what I order, which is a
double chickpeas spiced and stewed and
wrapped with a whole lot of Trinidadian
and love, I get taken someplace I wish I
could stay forever. It's like eating a
pot pie like it's a giant candy bar. I
mean, I am recording this on an empty
stomach and the thought of Anna at all
right now is making me want to cry. So,
I'm going to try to get through this
without shedding a tear. This isn't the
kind of restaurant that some people
would expect to find on a list of the
greatest restaurants. First of all,
where are the waiters? Second, there's a
particularly transfixing photo of Nicki
Minaj near the order window. Third, rot
is considered street food. If you like
your double with shrimp, it's $4. So
maybe this place is too accessible to be
great. But can I please introduce you to
Legaaya Michon, one of the New York
Times dining critics? She made a list of
the 100 greatest restaurants in New York
City. And uh right there at number 95
is ANA because if you know, you know.
And Lega knows. Lega's List puts a place
like ANA alongside more expensive places
where it can be tough to get a seat
sometimes beca.
This incredibly delicious, extremely
imaginative Caribbean spot that has
given me one of my favorite dining
experiences that I've had recently. The
guy's list is an argument that a great
restaurant could just be a food truck
and that great food could be anywhere.
All five burrows are on her list. But
this this isn't just about how great New
York is. It's about how when it comes to
food, New York City is the world. And a
lot of the world is on her list. To put
this thing together, here's what Lega
did. She ate 217 meals, 312 desserts, 28
pasta dishes, three snail dishes, only
three lega. The most expensive thing she
ordered was a $550.
And the cheapest were those Trinidadian
doubles. $250. And she spent $165 on an
omelette because truffles, one of the
great ripoffs in dining, truffles. I
don't understand them. But one man's
ripoff is clearly another person's flex.
So, I wanted to talk to Lega about how
she put this thing together, what her
most memorable experiences were, and
what it means to call any dining
experience the best.
>> Legia
>> Wesley,
>> welcome to Cannonball.
Um, listen, you have done a thing that
is very arduous.
um requires a lot of work, time,
sacrifice. You ate at more than a
hundred restaurants.
>> I did many more.
>> Some of them probably weren't fun to eat
at.
>> Every restaurant has its own.
You know, you can find something good.
People are trying.
>> I mean, the people are trying. People
are People are trying. We will talk
about that. But I'm just wondering how
you're feeling.
>> I'm feeling very full.
it, you know, it was a marathon and then
it was a sprint.
>> Okay.
>> So toward the end, I was eating at five
restaurants a day, but trying to
approach each with a completely open
mind, an open pallet.
>> So, it's all been I'm still in a little
bit of a days and uh but it's kind of
got to stop because work on the next
list must begin.
>> So, I mean, I don't want to get ahead of
ourselves here, but I was going to ask,
are you gonna is this is this gonna
you're going to do it every year? every
year.
>> And so I'm first of all wondering where
you've previously stood on these kind of
canonical projects and are you a person
who enjoys them? Not only the making of
them but the but the consumption of
them.
>> So lists are the great unifiers
>> because they bring everyone together to
disagree with them.
>> Yes, they do. So I you know there was
this great piece by the film scholar
Elena Gorfinkle from 2019 called against
lists
>> where she lists all the reasons why we
shouldn't make lists
>> and part of this is I'm not going to be
able to quote it quote her exactly but
she says something along the lines of
you know lists basically are just
codifying the current order. Mhm.
>> They're just,
>> you know, giving us, you know, it's just
a picture of where power lies.
>> And I think that can be true, but that
at least can also
>> maybe destabilize the current order and
help us to see things in a different
light. We can question what is it that
we really value? What is a restaurant?
What do we want from a restaurant? So,
I'm hoping that this that this
particular list does a little bit
>> Well, talk to me more about the
destabilization part. like what were you
what stabilization or what order
established order would you be hoping to
disturb a little bit?
>> Well, I think that when so when we think
about restaurants and how they're rated
and and there's always you the reference
point is often Michelin.
>> Sure.
>> And so that is a system that in in order
to get the top rating at Michelin a
restaurant has to have a lot of
resources. Mhm.
>> So only restaurants that are operating
at a certain price point can really
qualify for that. So there is a sense of
okay. So are those the only restaurants
we can talk about when we're talking
about the best?
>> Yes.
>> So what I want to say is first of all I
want to acknowledge that when Pete Wells
the legend started this list in in 2023.
>> He put a Lechon trailer that was only
open on weekends in the Bronx in the top
10. He put the Queen's Night Market in
the top 10. He put the Birandia uh taco
truck above Danielle. So I I I I think
that I think people, you know, have have
forgotten a little bit that actually
every year the list has celebrated a
wide range of restaurants.
>> So um so I can't take credit for doing
that. Um although people seem to think
maybe I've pushed it a little bit more
than it's been done in the past. Well, I
should say that one of the things I love
about your hundred restaurants is that
they're really a reflection. You know, I
have enjoyed reading your criticism for
years.
>> Oh, thank you.
>> And, you know, for a long time, you
wrote the I would I call it like the the
Pete Wells alternative. You were like
the village voice to his New York Times.
>> Oh, I like that.
>> You know, and the column was called
Hungry City. and you basically went to
many of the restaurants that Pete didn't
write about. And the way that you
expressed your
love of eating
manifested in every different kind of
restaurant in this city
>> and I feel like this list is such a
reflection of that enthusiasm, passion,
curiosity, sense of adventure. Like I
mean this is an enormous city.
>> It is. And one of the things that I love
about it is that it it it there is no
there is no stabilized order. It's pure
chaos every burrow you go to.
>> Well, so this is the other thing about a
list, right? Is a list can be a way to
make sense of chaos,
>> right? That's why that's why it can be
helpful. So when I was researching the I
think the latest the or the most recent
government data which is pre- pandemic
so things could have changed but that
there are you know more than 20,000
restaurants in this city. So right we we
have 100
>> suppressed
>> and so I really wanted to create a
portrait of the city.
>> Obviously it's a portrait at a specific
moment in time. Restaurants aren't
static. They're always changing. New
ones will open. old ones that maybe
started to languish will come back to
roaring to life. Uh so my goal here was
just to say this list take it as a as a
map.
>> Mhm.
>> This is a quest. Let's go all over the
city. The city is the city in all its
corners. It is New York City. You how
can you know New York City if you see it
only in one or two places that you go to
on a regular basis, right? Like you want
I wanted to embrace the whole city end
to end. And you know what I find
exhilarating about this is that there's
there appears to be no quota system.
>> There isn't,
>> right? It is pure feeling. So if you
love four or five different Taiwanese
restaurants, let's do it.
>> They all go in. Well, I have to say, you
step off the subway in Elmherst and just
all of those Tai restaurants. There were
more. I could have
>> Yeah. Let's just talk about Elmherst as
a as a as a what do we even call this?
Like the greatest food quote on earth.
It's amazing. You know, I think that as
>> Elmer's Queens, by the way,
>> Elmer Queens,
>> an amazing neighborhood. And then, of
course, there's Woodside, Jackson
Heights. There's so many. This whole
corridor of Queens is just
>> it's insane.
>> Phenomenal. And you and you step off the
subway and are just walking and you want
to enter every storefront.
>> I mean, a lot of these places, it's like
a couple people like it's like a husband
and wife or two sisters
>> um
>> who just really know what they're doing.
And sometimes it's just like Queens is a
magical place to just have a food
accident, like a happy food accident.
>> Completely
>> just by being adventurous.
>> Yes. You could just wander in. Also,
there's the walk into a Thai grocery and
just buy pre-made things. One of my
favorite places is a a steam table
joint. So, everything is made before you
get there. It actually beat out other
spots
>> because in I realize it
>> which place is this by name?
>> This is Kokang.
>> Okay. And part of it is that he just
makes the food the way he wants to make
it. So there's none of this possible
adjustment depending on your spice
preference.
>> He just lays it down. This is it. And I
have to tell you that there were
moments, so many moments when I thought
I had a meal and I thought, "Oh, that
restaurant is definitely top 10."
>> And then it didn't end up there because
there were so many good restaurants. It
was
>> so difficult. Can I tell you? I I wrote
down the names of restaurants on index
cards and sort of started moving them
around the floor in different orders. I
felt like I was Gary Mat and Homeland.
>> I was going to say, did you post? Were
they up or were they down? They were on
the floor.
>> They're on the floor because I just
wanted to keep
>> I didn't want to have to deal with pins
and I just was like, I'm just going to
keep moving them. I'm just going to keep
thinking what makes sense. So in your
mind then you know I'm wondering for you
what the difference if there is a
difference between something like
60 and 39
>> you know I mean okay
>> there is so when I was first trying to
do the rankings I tried assigning points
in different I had different categories
and I really was breaking it down
because I thought this is how I'm going
to do it you know because what if the a
place had amazing
starters and mains but the desserts
weren't great or what if this you know
like what are there is there a way to is
there a way to do this and it's absurd
actually you it the you can't do it
through pure data
>> if that makes sense because then I
thought okay I can't even do this on how
many points I was trying to do it out of
10 and then I thought no I'd have to do
it out of a hundred I'd have to get down
into the point whatever how many places
>> yeah yeah
>> so I did retain these categories
>> sure I just didn't do literal points but
you know looking at obviously the uh you
know everything from
imagination ambition ambiance service
sheer deliciousness
>> but there was this other category of New
Yorkiness
that mattered to me
>> which means what to you
>> so I think that there is a certain
scrainess to the New York character that
you know if You're born here, you're
born with it. If you move here, you have
to have to make it here.
>> You better get some.
>> This is the toughest crowd there is this
city. And to make it here, obviously,
you have to go all in.
>> So, I think that so many of these
restaurant tourers and chefs are working
in tiny spaces. This is true. Low to
highend in incredibly small kitchens,
undere equipped, eking out miracles. And
to me that is deeply New York.
>> So let's let's just sort of go let's do
some for examples here, right? Like can
you talk about a place that's on the
list that like you you would enjoy
thinking about as being like a New York
restaurant or like like like has a New
Yorkiness about it?
>> So I also think Singularity is part of
this. So for me, Mamalei, which is at
number 10
>> Taiwanese spot in Bayside.
>> Okay.
>> Mamale herself, melee the chef. one
person. Nobody else is there. Sometimes
she gets her elderly mom at home, but
most of the time it's just her.
>> She lives down the street. Um,
>> this is a place in Queens.
>> This place in Queens, Bayside, Queens,
it's it's bright and that's about it.
There's no more. That's the ambiance is
that it's brightly lit. And if she's
cooking, there's nobody up front. So,
there's a there's a little bell like the
kind of old school bell that you see in
hotels. Ring a bell for service. You
could we could ring a bell if you need
to. Um, there's a rice cooker full of
rice if you want more rice, which should
always be available.
>> Does she allow you to help yourself or
is she gonna take
>> you help yourself to the rice? And when
I tried to tip her at the end, she
slapped my hand and said,
>> "I'm the only one here. Save it for the
college kids who are working out.
>> I make the prices.
All the money is coming to me. So, what
are we doing?"
>> Oh, the other thing though is that so I
had reviewed her years ago for Hungry
City. I reviewed her spot and then
somehow she opened in Williamsburg and I
thought, did some investor swoop in and
what happened here? And then it closed
and I I received a DM from a worried
customer who said, I I worry that she
was taken advantage of and I don't know
what's happened. And then I heard that
she'd reopened
>> back in her old space in Bayside. And so
I asked her what happened to
Williamsburg and she said, "Those kids
eat so late at night. I want to go
home."
>> God bless Walt Legia. I have some weird
news for you about Mama Lee. Like I, you
know, the places I haven't been to
before, you know, I'm just doing what
everybody else does. Like I I I read
your list. I'm like, I've never heard of
this place. I've never been to this
place. Been meaning to go to this place.
So I put it on my I have a restaurant
map of, you know, every city I go to. I
just keep a map of where I'd like to eat
or where I have eaten. I went to put
Mama Lee on the map. Succeeded in doing
it, but it says temporarily closed. What
is that?
>> So this is also so true to character.
She could care less about the list.
She's on vacation.
>> It'll be open again May 29th.
>> Okay. I You just Everyone can use
>> I got worried. I got worried. I'm like,
did I close her that fast? Did she Is
she hiding in her house? What is
happening right now?
>> She did tell me not to tell anyone,
>> right? Cuz it's in your in in what you
wrote. You basically are like, "Listen,
>> I've ruined everything.
>> I I might be ruining everything, but
this woman needs to know she is good at
her job.
>> She is because she might retire soon.
Listen,
>> this might be her one shot.
>> Um, what else? What are some other
memorable experiences that you had maybe
in terms of passion, ambition?
>> Um,
>> commitment.
>> Yeah, commitment. I mean, talk to me
about tasting commitment.
>> Wow. Um, there's a Korean restaurant at
number four. It's called Maju. You know,
to find a luxury tasting counter in Long
Island City, Queens, this is already an
unexpected move. you we you you see
those kinds of restaurants in Manhattan
and you see them in Brooklyn. There
really are not I don't I don't know that
many other places in Queens that come
into that category. And this is a chef
also who was born in Korea but who moved
to the west when he was very very young
and in some ways that that has drawn him
to make food that's much more
traditional. Mhm.
>> So when you go to Maju, so part of the
fun of Maju also is that it's hidden at
the back of a Bonchan shop.
>> So
>> which is kind of a bit of a joke, right?
I mean,
>> you think you're I mean the Bonchan shop
is it, right? Like it you can go and get
>> some delicious chicken.
>> In fact, the B well the Bonjon shop came
first. He opened that and then there's a
space behind which has been transformed
into this lovely also another tasting
counter. Um, but what's magnificent
about this restaurant, oh, I should add,
by the way, also there is a a kind of um
intermission during the dinner where you
get to go and walk around the Bonan
shop, which I suppose it is a little bit
like, you know, like No, no, I'm telling
you, you're so excited that moment you
want to buy everything in the store.
It's so smart.
>> It also helps because with any tasting
menu, it's nice to It's nice to have a
moment of rest to walk around. Yeah,
that's dangerous for me though cuz that
gives me time to think about like what
else is what else might be coming even
if it's delicious.
>> So what's really interesting so the way
the the night begins and he might not
say this every time but um he says uh
we hope your meal tonight will be
delicious but that is not our mission.
>> So I mean I'm on the edge of my seat
already. I want to know more. So the
restaurant is devoted to fermentation,
the ancient Korean craft of it, uh,
which was really intended historically
and what was historically a poor
country, not to extract or maximize
flavor, but to turn food into medicine,
>> uh, to to make it something that heals
you.
>> It's also delicious.
>> Yeah, he knows what he's doing.
>> He knows what he's doing. There's a bit
of a show, but what's fantastic is that
it feels it feels a little like
evangelism, but it also feels a little
bit like love.
>> I mean, like what are some of the
fermented items that are coming your way
um as you eat? Now, how is he serving
them?
>> So, one thing there there's no caviar,
no truffles at this restaurant.
>> Thank the Lord.
>> But the luxury you're getting that you
can't get almost anywhere else, it's a
soy sauce. It's called ganjang in
Korean. It is 131 years old.
>> So, this was a soy sauce that started
fermenting,
you know, I think just a few years after
Korea got its first electric light bulb.
>> So, this is predating,
you know, airplanes,
>> mass refrigeration, the theory of
relativity.
you're tasting something that had to
survive decades of Japanese occupation
of war, you know, during during the
Korean War. So, it used to be that each
family almost every family would make
their own soy sauce and then this was
all destroyed during the Korean War, not
all. So there is this here's this 131
year old soy sauce and um the the the
chef Hon Kim he brushes it on these jun
which are sort of um fritter pancakes
and um before he serves it he asks do
you want to taste it just on its own
>> and we have these very beautiful brass
spoons set in front of us and he says I
can't put it in the spoon because that
will change the flavor. So, we put out
our hands and he puts just a drop on the
back of your hand and then you lick it
up.
>> Oh, okay. Well,
>> and that's just one of three soy sauces
he presents.
>> Um,
>> sorry. What does a 131year-old soy sauce
taste like? Well, it's complicated.
But what's interesting is that it's sort
of saltiness that has been pushed until
it's become almost it's mellow,
>> voluuptuous almost.
>> There's a cleanness to it.
>> There are um sort of these little
undertones, you know, you might like you
think, oh, is that kind of like the
turfiness of mushrooms or, you know,
blue cheese? It's like there are these
faint distant distant notes,
>> but they're all part of something that
feels like this swath. And in some ways,
the the the flavor
>> isn't just one thing.
>> Wow.
>> Sign me up.
>> You should go.
>> I'm coming.
>> Yes.
>> Were you surprised by I mean, I guess
let's just talk about the list. So, the
number one restaurant on your list
>> is Cabala.
>> Yes.
uh on a tiny little street called Extra
Place is
>> which is which is where the back
entrance of CBGB.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. So you've got this like
>> this rock and roll landmark essentially
and now it's being you know now it's
this great Caribbean restaurant that has
so many other things on its mind um in
terms of what Caribbean cooking can do,
look like, be. Mhm.
>> Can you talk to me about your experience
of of going to Cabala?
>> Um, this restaurant was not It had maybe
just opened when the list came out last
year or hadn't opened yet.
>> Um, cuz I don't was it Oh, it was on the
list. It was like number five or number
four.
>> It was number four and but it had just
been open for maybe a month or so at
that point. So, what what the thing
about Kaba um is that the chef Paul
Carmichael,
he is not elevating Caribbean food. No,
>> he sees it. He knows it. He honors it.
>> He shows us what its possibilities are.
And he brings his own artistry and
vision to it. So essentially, he is
treating it like any other cuisine. All
these other cuisines we take for granted
>> that chefs can put their own imprint on
them and find ways to say something new
within a traditional cuisine. But
Caribbean food hasn't been given that
same kind of access. It hasn't been part
of the upper ranks of dining in that
sense. So I do feel that uh he's doing
something that's not only
kind of new at this moment but important
>> and it's it's a special place in terms
of if you're familiar with a lot of the
a lot of the dishes on this menu. Um the
the places he takes it
um are extraordinary and they're very
surprising.
>> Well, like the pepper shrimp, right?
>> Yeah. Well, I don't even know if I had
that one of the nights I went.
>> So, I went with a friend of mine who
grew up in Jamaica and she was slightly
puzzled
because the shrimp are raw.
>> Mhm. Yes.
>> And um they, you know, they have this,
you know, they're they have this red
powder. It's sorrel powder and the
scotch bonnets.
>> I did have these. I did have these.
>> Are cooked down into these. They're
these little
>> dots of scotch bonnet emulsion.
>> And I remember
>> so hot and
>> and gorgeously hot. And it's just a
completely
new approach to a dish that still
captures its essence while tasting
completely different. I um I knew this
person called Carmichael was a special
person. I found myself in Australia a
few years ago.
>> Oh.
>> And uh I wanted to have a nice dinner
while I was in Sydney.
>> And so I went to
um one of the David Chang restaurants
down there.
>> I think Mafuka Seobbo. Is that what it
Okay. and uh sat at the bar and I was
greeted by this man who was working the
kitchen.
>> He was operating the kitchen at at at
Sabo.
>> Mhm.
>> And we were the only two black people in
the restaurant.
>> Oh wow.
>> It was Paul Carmichael
>> who like basically I'm going to say it
this way because that's how it felt.
This man made me dinner.
>> Yes.
>> He made me about eight dishes and I'm
saying me. It's a busy restaurant, but
it seemed like he and I were like really
talking about, you know, what it's like
for him to be in Sydney. He misses his
family. And one of the things he said he
wanted to do was come back to the US.
Um, and he was thinking about it and
what would it like what would it take
for him to get there? Is now the time?
What what what because, you know, he had
been working for this, you know, for the
great David Chang. and
>> what would some other expression of this
thing that's in him look like to like
come out? And um
that meal was one of the great nights of
my life.
>> And I was like, I would love for this
man to get a chance to open a
restaurant. Anyway, I brought cuz I knew
I was going to talk to you today and you
made the restaurant number one. You make
about number one on your list. I keep
>> the menu from that meal
>> in a frame in my kitchen. That's
incredible.
>> This is like this is what he cooked for
me that night.
>> Oh wow.
>> And it's just like I mean I'll read some
of the things.
>> He made me I mean and these are things
that he's still I mean he's doing
variations of some of these things at
Cabala.
>> Um
>> let's see. Sea urchin with cassava
pepper. Oh my god, I can taste that
right now.
>> Um and I'm not a big sea urchin person
either. Anyway, uh ducana, sweet potato,
currants, and Caribbean exo sauce.
>> Oh.
>> Um, mustoto rice, beans, peanut. I mean,
there are
>> like what's a big dish? Pernil. He gave
he gave me
>> Oh, wow.
>> I had a great pernil that he that he
cooked. Um, but anyway, I just
>> I don't know. It's like a very magical
thing when this is the point of this
list in some ways is that
these restaurants do have even if you
only go out. This is a restaurant that's
expensive. Um it is to me a special I
mean it it can be a special occasion a
restaurant. If you're looking for one
place to splurge on in a year,
>> this is a great place to do it. And and
I will say it's expensive but also
within the context of New York City fine
dining
>> almost almost reasonable and you get so
much food. I remember a server there
telling me
>> we didn't finish everything.
>> Yeah. She said chef likes to feed people
>> cuz I thought I thought we were only
getting three courses but then there
seemed to be so many side dishes that
just materialized and uh was is
>> I call those side dishes. You know they
typically it's an amuse bouch.
>> I'm like it's like these are like amooj
booties, right? They're like like lots
of nice things just coming out and like
shaking their butts in your face. It's
just it's like a wonderful thing when a
when somebody wants to overfeed you. But
at some point I mean for me honestly I'm
trying to get to dessert,
>> right? So I'd like to just not eat so
much that I'm not interested in what
sometimes at some restaurants really is
the best thing that they that they have.
But yeah, I mean, I think there I think
that part of the reason I framed that
menu was because, you know, I had this
magical experience with this with this
with this black man at this restaurant
where we were the only negroes there,
but also I had I mean, every single
thing he made was original,
>> true to him in some way
>> and delicious. You know what I want to
this things that I really admire is that
first of all he he talked to me about
how if he was doing certain with certain
dishes he said I just want to be in the
conversation for bestin-class. So if
he's doing it his chilletas can
>> it's a little more traditional an
approach but he's also the it's fairly
humble to say I just want to be in the
conversation right but the other thing
so I you know the setup of cabawa is you
have a tasting counter so you're at the
open kitchen and you can interact with
the cooks I didn't see him on that side
until the last time I visited
>> because he was over at the bar bar
kabala which is a smaller informal place
on the side where where and he was there
cooking the patties cuz that's where
they serve the patties.
>> The goat patties.
>> Yes. Okay. Yeah.
>> And and so I asked him about it and he
said he said I go where I'm needed.
>> It stood out to me certainly. And
>> but it also said to me that he values
those goat patties as much as he does
the past menu. Those need to be as on
point.
>> And so if that's the place where if
there's whatever like they need him
because those need to be so essentially
the small joys matter too.
>> Okay. I mean, I think I want to think
about how we're talking about this list
and like maybe expand
outward a little bit and also thinking
about like how people are responding to
it. You know, we're talking about this
list. We're talking about like some of
the wonderful things that happened to
you while you were compiling it,
experiencing these restaurants, like
things I loved eating at some of these
places that you went to, things I'm
excited to go to myself. But you know
there are people out there who
experience this with a lot of approprium
in their hearts
>> passion.
>> Sure you can be nice about it. I'm I'mma
say some Um and I think that
some of what the power of this list is
and we talked about its ability to
destabilize,
you know,
a way that we think about restaurants
operating and what a restaurant is. But
there are people out there who think if
you aren't going into credit card debt
to eat a meal, then you didn't need at a
restaurant. So, I just want to read you
this comment from from Amy F. Sorry,
this list is nuts. So many of these are
counter or takeout joints. I'm sure
every spot on here has delicious food,
but a restaurant, quote unquote, is a
specific thing offering a dining
experience. It's not just about food.
Thank you, Amy. would rather these kinds
of lists be broken up into different
categories, allowing for fine dining
ranked among its contemporaries and
casual gems ranked among its peers as
well, instead of mashing everything
together.
>> Can you take this person to school?
>> Well, I understand Amy's concerns.
>> Don't you dare try to customer service
me right now. Oh, no. Lea, this won't
do. Come on. So, I'm glad that Amy feels
so strongly about restaurant.
>> And
>> are you a mother? You're a mother.
>> I am definitely a mom.
>> You're a mom who has some who kid has
some friends over. Oh my god.
>> So,
okay. So, if we were if we were talking
about the greatest rock songs of all
time.
>> Oh, wow. We just did that, Lega. We just
did a version of that.
>> So, you might say Jimmyi Hendris, Jimmy
Paige. Did anyone ever play guitar
better? But then there's also the punk
who can only bash out three chords but
writes the song you remember your whole
life.
>> Oh, so we're going back to Extra Place
now.
>> We are.
>> Okay.
>> So, everything is connected.
>> Yes. Yes, ma'am.
>> So, I don't think it diminishes
a fine dining restaurant to stand
alongside a taco truck.
>> Nothing is being taken away. Oh my god,
I just got a little I just welled up a
little bit.
>> So,
it is possible that the dumplings that
you eat on the street corner are more
perfect in what they are and are
delivered to you with more warmth than
you might find at a tasting counter
where the food doesn't hit all its marks
>> and um the ambiance is a little chilly.
M
>> so each restaurant I think needs to be
taken on its own terms. That's the best
that we can do as critics. You approach
a restaurant on its own terms. What is
it trying to achieve? Does it achieve
it?
>> Is it a good thing to achieve what they
want?
>> And so that's where this these crazy
rankings that's where it comes from is
thinking about each restaurant at its
level and what it's able to do. It just
would be absurd to have a a list of the
best restaurants in the city be only
restaurants that the vast majority of
New Yorkers could never afford to go to
>> or would have no net, you know, native
interest in experiencing too.
>> There's that, too. So, I think that this
is this list gives every everyone can
access. You can go to one of the best
restaurants in the city. It might be a
taco truck, but you could go there. It
makes it accessible. And frankly, we
have some of the best taco trucks.
>> Amen. Listen, you mean you are one of
the people in my life who is like,
"Don't come at me with this. New York
City doesn't have good Mexican food.
You're just one of those people. Don't
come at me with that."
Um, I think what I love about the list
and the way it like sort of pre-rebukes
a response like the one I just read from
Amyf is that
you understand
that the playing field for a lot of
people who want to cook food for the
public, the playing field's not level,
>> right? It's a lot easier for people at
one end of this spectrum to get a space,
open a restaurant, serve people, be
incredibly successful than it is for a
whole host of other people to do the
same.
>> Yeah.
>> They are in a hole in the wall because
the hole is all they could afford to
rent to serve the food.
>> And your list is a democratization
event, right? Part of the
destabilization of it is that it is
allowing many different people an
opportunity to say to say, "Hey,
the this Bidia experience that I am
trying to offer at my three trucks or
our three trucks
>> is it's as good as
what is going on at John George." And
listen, I didn't want to enjoy John
George. Like I just thought for sure it
couldn't it couldn't possibly.
>> It's pretty great.
>> Oh my god. But so is getting your like
little cons situation. So like you know
what I mean? Like you're the the
if you've got a open mind,
>> a big stomach and a stomach and a broad
pallet.
>> Mhm. like there there are obvious
differences environmentally and you know
maybe from the standpoint of technique
in terms of like h how your meal is
delivered to you but there's technique
on both ends
>> there is flavor on both ends
>> commitment uh and ambition I I will say
that I think that in fact the
restaurant's at the highest end in some
ways the bar is higher it has to be
you're if you're paying $300 400
ahead,
>> then
>> you you do expect more and you should
expect more and um and so people are
working hard on every level
>> and so there's no taking away from that.
I recognize that working in restaurants,
restaurants are a really difficult
business, always on the verge of there's
always the risk on the verge of
everything, right? They're razor thin
margins. And so one of the heartwarming
things that came out of the list is that
uh there's a restaurant in Chinatown,
Hoppley.
>> Hoppley.
>> Hopppley. Right. Delicious. Yes. It's so
great.
>> And it's been around I think for 50
years.
>> I mean that that lazy Susan
>> the old school Chinese and they're
velveting the lobster and they got the
razor clams and they've got that chicken
with the
>> Oh my god, that chicken is so
um so
>> but they really struggled. They almost
closed during the pandemic. They they've
just been teetering on the edge.
>> And um a friend of mine said the other
day that she went by and they said that
there are people in the street waiting
for the table. So that's a really big
turnaround.
>> Yeah. But I'm just thinking like to sort
of writ large um
how are you thinking about what it means
to be eating at all in public right now?
Um, and what was how did the experience
of really doing this kind of
concentrated thinking about excellence
>> um, paint a picture of what it's like to
be eating in this country right now?
>> I think one thing that's exciting about
food in this country right now is that
it's really changed. So, we have a lot
of passion around it. That actually
people were not that adventurous about
food even three decades ago. uh there's
been a sea change in the country. So now
we have the point where there are lots
of people on social media making quick
videos and giving boosts to little
places. And I love that. I think there's
room for many different ways of talking
about food and getting people excited
about food.
>> And um so that's all very exciting. Um,
I think that, um, the thing that I worry
about in in eating out now is I think
there's a chainification happening and a
big moneyification if that's a thing.
You know, the
that where you used to have lots of
little restaurants, um, so independent,
really different, interesting, doing
things their own way that maybe there's
a kind of push towards sameness. I mean,
Williamsburg, I mean, just to pick a
neighborhood, the chains have come and
they are they are really going ham in
parts of Williamsburg.
>> Yeah, it's hard. But even in places, so
in in Chinatown,
>> there's this sort of
>> there's there's been a sort of takeover
by boba shops where where
>> a lot of boba shops are coming in and
and displacing
older businesses that um
>> there may be more boba shops than
Chinatown needs. and and some of it is,
you know, money from outside investors
bringing these places in. And then some
people have noticed that some of this
might be even happening in places like
Atoria, Queens, where you'll find a a
cafe that's sort of panarab. It doesn't
seem to be specific to one country. Um,
and it's possible that there's Dubai
money coming in. Um,
>> oh wow.
>> So it's all interesting.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, so big money can be coming from many
different places and it can manifest in
different ways. Um, and it's
interesting, but I hope we can also
protect,
>> right? But I mean I mean I feel like the
like but that that okay so that's sort
of a
like a macro trend but then there are
like these actual I mean then there's
the actual experience of what it's like
to be going out in restaurants and the
experiences of you know the way certain
decor now or at some point and I think
it's changed you know I think we're sort
of post Instagram in restaurants. Um,
>> do you think already
>> I think that a lot of new places have
like changed their lighting so that you
know
>> to be anti-in Instagram so everything
has a shadow.
>> It's a little it's a little more it's a
little dimmer in a lot of restaurants
now.
>> Dimness is in right now for sure. I
think things are really dark
>> and and and often you'll get a there's a
there's a lamp that's particularly in
right now. I can't remember that little
umbrella that you can tap
>> and you can actually adjust it and
accidentally blind yourself. Suddenly
it's too bright. And then the
>> waiters are knocking them on the floor
though, too.
>> Like servers are definitely like oops.
You know, I just turned around and
knocked over one knocked over your lamp.
Sorry about that.
>> Oh, that's that's an interesting idea
that maybe there could be a resistance
to that. I mean, I sort of like that. It
feels to me like these restaurants are a
little bit tired of seeing shitty
pictures of their food show up on
people's Instagram feeds, right? Cuz
it's not like you're sending a
professional photographer to take these
pictures. This is like, you know,
Jen from down the hall. Like what? Like
gez, her pictures aren't good. This is
not these pictures aren't making you.
Have you ever looked at like one of the
Google review? like you know you look at
the the photos attached to these
restaurants on Google and they make you
not want to go to the restaurant even
like one of the top places.
>> So I wonder though if there's another
side to this which is obviously when we
take photos first of all we're not
eating the dish at the moment it comes
when it's at when it's perfect when it's
at its perfect temperature.
>> No,
>> but we're also not in the moment. There
are times when
>> it's it's such a relief
>> to not take a photo, to just go to a
restaurant and to just eat
>> and also for the food not necessarily to
be the center of attention. It's good.
>> That's a good point. But why is it now
we go out and everything becomes So this
is the other thing. I think there's been
a terrible loss of spontaneity. First of
all, it's impossible to get
reservations. It requires all requires a
whole battle plan. Um, and then you
approach the restaurant itself. You
research. Well, maybe not because not
everybody does this, but I feel like a
lot of I'm seeing is, okay, you go to
the restaurant, you've done your
research, you know which dishes are the
ones you're supposed to get. Now, my
feeling on this, by the way, is that if
a restaurant is open at any hour that it
chooses to be open, and anything that's
on its menu should be good. I don't
think that there should be only certain
dishes that you can
>> I mean I I totally agree with you that
that this is the thing you'd even have
to say
>> but I think that sometimes I go to
restaurants and I feel like I've ordered
wrong. Sometimes it is better not to get
a main course and just to go get all the
preliminaries
and they are the most beautiful because
sometimes with the mains a bite is good
and that was enough. I but I mean I'm
with you that I think everything like
the whole thing should be I don't want
to stop eating it. You know that should
be the experience I'm having no matter
what I order.
>> Yes.
>> But okay. So,
I'm thinking now like before we go, I
just kind of want to ask you like a
really sort of basic question and just
ask about
>> your favorite thing that you ate.
>> Oh,
>> a favorite thing that you ate
>> during the course of this on this
journey
>> this journey. I mean, I will say that
when I went to Mama Lee,
>> okay, I'm going to give you two stories
because I I just can't really. So, Mama
Lee makes these lion's head meatballs.
And of course, they're called lion's
head for a reason because they're quite
large.
>> They're big as a lion's head.
>> Um, baby lion maybe. But they're they're
so big. I actually took a photo of them
and I keep showing people photo on my
phone. I'm like a mom. I'm like, can you
see it? Look how big these these lions
heads are.
And I just feel like to sustain a
meatball at that size, when I taste
this, I just think, okay, so this is a
this is a staple Taiwanese dish.
>> Many people have made this. Have they
made them this big? I'm not sure I've
ever seen it quite this big.
>> And has it ever been so perfect
texturally? It's possible. I'm sure.
Yet, there is something about it.
everything from the way in which it
comes with this cabbage and and the way
in which like the juices from the
meatballs trickle down into the cabbage.
So it's everything it's flavor and
texture and she's an architect. So
>> uh that's and the other story. So
Shauna's house.
>> Oh Shauna.
>> Have you been?
>> I have been and what a delight. What a
human what a human delight. Sha Shaun.
Sorry.
>> Yes. We have to
>> We should just say Shauna's house in
Staten Island.
>> Yes.
>> Uh
>> soul food.
>> Soul food place. I mean, she's doing the
classics.
>> Yes. And that mac and cheese is pretty
spectacular.
>> But the dish for me, the whole fried
fish.
>> Oh.
>> So, it's so airy and light. It's golden
armor.
>> You can't believe you're eating a fish,
honestly.
>> And it comes, you know, she sort of
stands it up, you know, everything. The
head. It's a whole fish, which I love.
And um I asked her about it and um yeah,
she double fries it and then she says
she said uh I love me some on it. And
you know, and she says that when she
sees it on the plate ready to go out,
she just wants to bite the head off.
>> Yeah. I mean, listen, Shauna.
>> Shauna.
>> And she comes out to each table. Your
meal has not really begun until Shauna
comes out to your table
>> gives you a hug and tells you that she
loves you and you feel like she means
it.
>> I think we should stop.
>> I have a surprise for you.
>> What?
>> You do. I think that we can't really end
this without eating something.
>> Uh, wait. What? Okay. So, wait. Why are
the doors opening? Oh my god. What's
happening? I don't like surprises. It's
a sneak attack. But you liked it.
>> What is going on? Is that why Austin
really left? Did Austin leave to bring
in food? He's so credible.
>> All right. So, what is happening right
now?
>> Well, I know that you don't like
chocolate or or are exiled from the
world of chocolate.
>> I am banned from chocolate.
>> So, um but this is dessert since you
like dessert.
>> I do like dessert.
>> Have you ever been to Lay?
>> No. So, there are no bakeries on the
list because So, in terms of what is and
isn't a restaurant, we did decide it had
to be a a hot savory meal.
>> Yes. I mean, it can serve dessert, but
it can't just be dessert.
>> That was what we I mean, I'm open to
>> I'm open, but I mean, you had to draw a
line somewhere.
>> Somewhere. So, um but if there were if
if bakeries could be if a petissery
could be on this list, this one deserves
a higher ranking. Uh it is all the way
over
>> 44 East 21st Street. So that's like
>> is that flat iron or beyond flat iron?
So it's in the flat iron.
>> That's early flat iron.
>> Early flat iron. And um the chef is
Korean trained in Paris. So this is all
the highest level of French pastry but
with um a Korean palette
>> um and with Korean ingredients and
touches. Would you like to see?
>> Uh yeah, of course. Shall we take a
look?
>> I mean, how about we all take a look and
let's see. I don't want to Oh,
>> okay. This is uh this is a little little
corn.
>> So,
>> um Okay. So this is one of the
interesting things is that we think of
corn as something I mean in the west
right it's a savory ingredient
>> but in Asia it is often um
>> it is often here's what I'm going to do
>> beers in a dessert
>> hey everybody this is this is beautiful
>> it's a corn it's a corn
>> it's a corn
>> so this is a whole thing of course in um
Paris at petisseries
seeing how perfectly you can imitate
life in uh in these different shapes but
I'm so curious to hear what you think.
>> All right.
Ooh.
Oh, yeah. Oh,
Leg, thank you for
>> It's
>> pulling a fast one on me.
>> Well, thank you for having me.
>> Y'all are bad. Thank you, Lega.
>> And we're still going to go out to
dinner.
>> I mean, just, you know, ring my bat
phone.
I'm Commissioner Gordon, by the way. I'm
not Batman.
>> Got it.
>> All right. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> This is great.
>> Yay.
>> This is delicious.
>> I am so glad.
>> Wait, I'm sorry. Do you guys want some
of this? I will seriously sit here and
eat. Oh, these MFS got their own. They
got their own.
>> I gave them the rundown because
everything God bless
>> everything treats for everybody is
great. Do Do you guys Does everybody
Okay, everybody's getting because I I'm
going to finish this.
>> Fantastic.
>> So, speak now.